W-19473121-hsa-component-partial-kt (#322)
mulesoft/docs-hosting: hybrid-standalone/modules/ROOT/pages/creating-alerts-hybrid.adoc

* Individual server health and performance monitoring
* Server group coordination and member status tracking
* Cluster connectivity and node health supervision
* Resource utilization threshold monitoring (CPU, memory, load average, thread count)
* Infrastructure lifecycle event notifications (connections, disconnections, deletions)

[NOTE]
====
Runtime Manager retains 30 days of alert history for audit and analysis.

Alerts retrigger when conditions continuously exceed specified thresholds, ensuring persistent notification of ongoing issues.
====

== Rate Limits on Alerts

Anypoint Platform enforces rate limits that determine how often an alert is triggered and prevent excessive emails from being sent.
At present, there is no defined limit to the number of Runtime Manager alerts.

== Create an Alert

Configure alerts to monitor your servers, server groups, and clusters with customizable thresholds and notification settings.

. In Runtime Manager, click *Alerts*.
+
** If no alerts exist, you see the initial setup page:
+
.The arrow shows the *Create your first alert* option.

> image::alerts-no-alerts.png[Alerts page with no alerts set up]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
image::alerts-no-alerts.png["Alerts page with no alerts set up"]
```

** For existing alert configurations, use the add button:
+
.The arrow shows the blue plus (*+*) icon on the *Alerts* page.

> image::alerts-create-additional-alert.png[Alerts page with blue plus (+) icon]

Reviewer: Flagging to add quotation marks to alt text

+
The *Name* is limited to 256 characters.
* *Severity level*
+
Severity of the alert: *Critical*, *Warning*, or *Info*
+
* *Source*
+
The source of the alert: servers
+
This field appears only if your Anypoint Platform account supports local servers.
* *Server type*
+
When the source is *Servers*, the type of server: single server, server group, or cluster.
+
If your servers aren't available on your menu, see xref:managing-servers.adoc[Servers, Server Groups, and Clusters].
* *Servers*
+
The server to apply the alert to
* *Condition*
+
The condition that triggers the alert
+
The available options depend on whether your alert is linked to a server.
Some conditions require additional data.
See <<Alert Conditions>>.
* *Subject*
+
The subject of the alert email to send when the alert is triggered
+
The subject can include variables.
See <<Alert Variables>>.
* *Message*
+
The body text for the email to send when the alert is triggered.
The message body can include variables.
See <<Alert Variables>>.
* *Recipients*
+
The recipients of the alert email
+
You can select up to 20 platform user IDs and enter up to 20 email addresses.
. Click *Create Alert*.

> When an alert condition is triggered, Runtime Manager sends email notifications similar to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an alert condition is triggered, Runtime Manager sends email notifications similar to this:
```

|`${comparison}`| Above or Below
|`${groupName}`|Name of the server group
|`${location}`| Where to find more information about the alert
|`${memberName}`|Name of the node in a server group or cluster
|`${name}` |Name of the target (server, server group, or cluster) that triggers the alert
|`${newVersion}`|New version number for the agent or runtime
|`${oldVersion}`|Previous version number for the agent or runtime
|`${parentLocation}` |Where to find more information about the alert on the node's parent cluster
|`${parentResource}` |Name of the resource, such as server or app, on the node's parent cluster that triggers the alert
|`${resource}` |Name of the infrastructure resource that triggers the alert
|`${severity}` | Severity of the alert
|`${state}` | State of the resource that triggers the alert, such as Running or Disconnected
|`${threshold}` |Count over the period of time that triggers the alert
|===

== Access and View Alerts

Runtime Manager provides multiple ways to access and monitor your infrastructure alert configurations and history.

=== Global Alert Management

Access all infrastructure alerts from the main alerts dashboard:

> . Click *Alerts* in the Runtime Manager left navigation pane:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Alerts* in the Runtime Manager navigation pane:
```

+
.The arrow shows the *Alerts* menu.
image::alerts-view-all-alerts-tab.png[Alerts menu]

From the alerts dashboard, you can:

* Create new infrastructure alerts
* Search alerts by name or configuration
* Filter alerts by source, condition, severity, or status
* Modify alert configurations by clicking alert names
* View alert status, settings, and trigger history in the details pane:
+
.The arrow shows the alert history in the details pane.
image::alerts-history.png[Alert history in the details pane]

=== Servers, Server Groups, and Clusters Alert Views

View alerts associated with specific servers, server groups, or clusters:

. In the *Servers* list, click the *Status* column for your target server, server group, or cluster.
. Click the *View Associated Alerts* link in the details pane:
+
.The arrow shows the *View Associated Alerts* link in the details pane.
image::alerts-view-details-pane.png[View Associated Alerts link in the details pane]

=== Alert History by Servers, Server Groups, and Clusters

Review historical alert activity for specific servers, server groups, or clusters:

. In the *Servers* list, click the name of your server, server group, or cluster.

> . Click *Settings* in the left navigation pane.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Settings* in the navigation pane.
```
